a Japanese method to raise creative kids
Japanese people are known for their
intelligence politeness and Welman why
is this nation so unique and different
from the rest of the world it seems we
found the answer they have an incredibly
cool education system and unique
teaching methods watch till the end
there's a small but brilliant bonus for
you let's start with a unique Japanese
method in the schools for developing
creativity and kids we believe that the
whole world needs to adopt it's called
nameless paints Japanese designers named
you tsuki my and a Yamamoto ki created
an unusual set to teach kids colours and
painting this fantastic set won the 2012
kokyo Design Award let's see how it
works
nameless paints includes 10 tubes that
don't have color names such as yellow
blue or green instead there are only
spots of a particular color or colors on
each tube as you can see the spots are
also different sizes the designers aim
is to change the way kids think and
learn they want children to understand
what shady will get if they make certain
colors for instance a child looks at the
tube with two spots pink and blue he
doesn't know what colour hides inside he
squeezes a tube and gets purple color so
as a result the kid learns that the same
amounts of pink and blue paints create
purple here's another example a tube
with a big blue spot and a small pink
one it means if you mix a small amount
of the pink color and a large amount of
the blue color you get dark blue color
interesting right as you can see each
tube hides a particular color inside
pink yellow blue
purple red dark green dark blue orange
light green and black however to get one
of these shades the child should think
about which colors created as a result
they learn how to create new colors and
how to mix them it's an easy and fun way
to understand the color theory recent
studies have shown that free thinking is
an attribute that a person can acquire
over time and the schools play the most
important part in developing creativity
now here's the bonus 10 brilliant
features of the Japanese education
system the whole world needs to adopt
the success of the Japanese culture is
very simple they put a lot of effort and
time in the education system trying to
make it not only useful but also fun one
manners before knowledge Japanese
schools students don't take any exams
until they reach grade for the age of 10
the goal for the first three years of
school is not to judge the child's
knowledge but to establish good manners
and to develop their character children
are taught to respect other people and
to be gentle with animals and nature
they also learn how to be generous
compassionate and empathetic besides
this the kids are taught qualities like
grit self-control and justice - the
academic year starts on April 1st
while most schools in the world begin
their academic year in September or
October in Japan it is April that marks
the start of the academic and business
calendar the first day of school often
coincides with one of the most beautiful
natural phenomena the time of cherry
blossom the academic year is divided
into three trimesters April 1st till
July 20th September 1st till December
26th and January 7th through March 25th
Japanese students get six weeks of
holidays during the summer they also
have two-week breaks in winter and
spring three students clean the school
themselves in Japanese schools students
have to clean the classrooms cafeterias
and even toilets all by themselves
most Japanese schools do not employ
janitors or custodians but cleaning
students are divided into small groups
and assigned tasks that they rotate
throughout the year the Japanese
education system believes that requiring
students to clean up after themselves
teaches them to work in a team and help
each other besides spending their own
time and effort sweeping mopping and
wiping makes kids respect their work and
the work of others
for school lunch is provided on a
standardized menu the Japanese education
system does its best to ensure that the
students eat healthy and balanced meals
in public elementary and junior high
school the lunch for students is cooked
according to a standardized menu
developed not only by qualified chefs
but also by health care professionals
all classmates eat in their classroom
together with the teacher this helps
build positive teacher-student
relationship 5 after-school workshops
are very popular to get into a good
junior high school most Japanese
students enter a preparatory school or
attend private after-school workshops
the classes in these schools are held in
the evenings seeing groups of small kids
returning from their extracurricular
courses late in the evening is common in
Japan Japanese students have an 8 hour
school day but apart from that they
study even during the holidays and on
weekends it's no wonder that the
students in this country almost never
repeat grades primary lower secondary or
secondary school 6 students learn
Japanese calligraphy and poetry Japanese
calligraphy or Shoto involves dipping a
bamboo brush and ink and using it to
write hieroglyphs on rice paper for
Japanese people Shoto is an art that is
no less popular than traditional
painting haiku on the other hand is a
form of poetry that uses simple
expressions to convey deep emotions to
readers both classes teach children to
respect their culture and centuries-old
traditions
seven students have to wear a school
uniform almost all junior high schools
require their students to wear school
uniforms while some schools have their
attire traditional Japanese school
uniform consists of a military-style
four boys and a sailor outfit for girls
the uniform policy is intended to remove
social barriers among students and get
them into a working mood besides wearing
school uniforms helps to promote a sense
of community among the children eight
the school attendance rate is about
99.99% probably all of us have played
truant at least once in our life however
Japanese students don't skip classes nor
do they arrive late for school or over
around 91 percent of pupils in Japan
reported that they never were only in
some classes ignored what to teach a
lecture
how many countries can boast such
statistics
nine a single test decides the students
futures at the end of high school
Japanese students have to take an exam
that determines their future a student
can choose one college they would like
to go to and that college has a
particular score requirement if a
student doesn't reach that score they
probably don't go to college the
competition is very high only 76 percent
of school graduates continue their
education after high school it's no
wonder that the period of preparation
for entrance to higher education
institutions is nicknamed examination
hell 10 college years are the best
holidays in life having gone through
examination hell Japanese students
usually take a little break in this
country college is often considered the
best years of a person's life sometimes
Japanese people call this period a
vacation before work now what is the
education system like in your country
and what would an ideal education system
look like share your thoughts in the
comments below don't forget to hit the
like button and click subscribe to stay
on the bright side of life